CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## Contributing to MNELAB
If you want to implement a new feature, fix an existing bug or help improve MNELAB in any other way (such as adding or improving documentation), please consider submitting a [pull request](https://github.com/cbrnr/mnelab/pulls) on GitHub. It might be a good idea to open an [issue](https://github.com/cbrnr/mnelab/issues) beforehand and discuss your planned contributions with the developers.

Before you start working on your contribution, please make sure to follow the guidelines described in this document.


### Setting up the development environment
You will need to have a working Python environment. Make sure to use at least Python 3.6 (MNELAB makes extensive use of f-strings). Installation methods vary across platforms (for example, you could use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) on macOS), but if you don't have any specific preferences, [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/) is one of the best options available for Windows, macOS, and Linux.

In addition to Python, you will also need a working [Git](https://git-scm.com/) installation. Again, installation methods are different depending on which platform you develop, but if you use Anaconda you can type `conda install git` in a terminal and you should be all set.

### Forking and cloning MNELAB
On the [GitHub website](https://github.com/cbrnr/mnelab), click on the "Fork" button in the top right corner to create your own fork of MNELAB (you need to be logged in with your GitHub account). Next, from the main page of your fork, click on the green "Clone or download" button. Copy the URL to the clipboard &ndash; you will need this URL to create your local MNELAB repository.

Open a terminal and change into the folder where you would like your MNELAB project to live. Then, type `git clone <URL>` (replace `<URL>` with the repository URL you copied to the clipboard earlier). Your fork of MNELAB is now available in the `mnelab` folder.

### Installing required Python packages
In a terminal, change to the `mnelab` folder containing your MNELAB fork. Now you are ready to install all MNELAB dependencies.

If you use Anaconda, you should run `conda install numpy scipy matplotlib pyqt scikit-learn` followed by `python3 -m pip install mne python-picard pyEDFlib pyxdf pybv` and `python3 -m pip install pyobjc-framework-Cocoa` if you are on macOS. You might want to [create a new environment](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#creating-an-environment-with-commands) instead of installing everything into your base environment.

If you do not use Anaconda, run `python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt` followed by `python3 -m pip install -r requirements-optional.txt`. You might want to [create a virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html#creating-virtual-environments) instead of installing everything into your main environment.

### Creating a new branch
Before you start working with the MNELAB codebase you need to create a new branch. In a terminal, type `git checkout -b <BRANCH_NAME>` (replacing `<BRANCH_NAME>` with a suitable name for your branch). Now you are ready to work on your contribution.

### Making a pull request
Once you have committed all of your changes, you can push them to your remote fork by typing `git push`. The GitHub page of your fork will now show a prompt to create a new pull request. Think of a good title and describe your contribution. If you have a corresponding issue, make sure to mention this issue in your description (so it will be automatically closed after your pull request is merged).

### Adding a changelog entry
Once you have an open pull request, add an entry to the top of `CHANGELOG.md` in the most suitable section: "Added" lists new features, "Fixed" lists bug fixes, and "Changed" lists all other (mostly internal) changes. Finally, make sure to mention your pull request and your name.

### Coding style
MNELAB adheres to [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) wherever possible. However, because PyQt5 is based on the C++-based Qt library, most of its names use camel case (violating PEP8 recommendations) instead of snake case. In your own code, please follow PEP8 naming conventions whenever possible. Furthermore, MNELAB uses double quotes for strings by default unless this is not possible (e.g. use `"string"` instead of `'string'`, but `'this is "weird"'` uses single quotes because the string itself contains double quotes).

## Making a PyPI release
Follow these steps to make a new [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/mnelab/) release (requires write permissions for GitHub and PyPI project sites):

- Run `pip install -U setuptools wheel twine` to install/update the necessary packages
- Remove the `.dev0` suffix from the `__version__` string in `mnelab/mainwindow.py`
- Update the section in `CHANGELOG.md` corresponding to the new release with the current date
- Commit these changes and push
- Create a new release on GitHub and use the version as the tag name (make sure to prepend the version with a `v`)
- Generate the source distribution package with `python3 setup.py sdist` (remove the folders `build`, `dist`, and `mnelab.egg-info` before if these already exist)
- Upload to PyPI with `twine upload dist/*`

This concludes the new release. Now prepare the source for the next planned release as follows:

- Update the `__version__` string in `mainwindow.py` to the next planned release and append `.dev0` (don't forget to push this change)

Commit message:

Replace PyQt5 with QtPy (#118)
* Replace PyQt5 with QtPy

* Replace PyQt5 with QtPy in dependencies

* Use QScreen.geometry() instead of QApplication.desktop().screen().rect()

* Use QApplication.screens()[0].geometry() instead

* Add PyQt5/PySide2 to About dialog

* Include qtpy in About dialog

* Update README

* Use Pebble (capital P) wherever PyPI names are required

* More detailed instructions for rcc

* Add changelog entry

* Update contributing guide

* Use latest images on Azure pipelines

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## Contributing to MNELAB
If you want to implement a new feature, fix an existing bug or help improve MNELAB in any other way (such as adding or improving documentation), please consider submitting a [pull request](https://github.com/cbrnr/mnelab/pulls) on GitHub. It might be a good idea to open an [issue](https://github.com/cbrnr/mnelab/issues) beforehand and discuss your planned contributions with the developers.

Before you start working on your contribution, please make sure to follow the guidelines described in this document.


### Setting up the development environment
You will need to have a working Python environment. Make sure to use at least Python 3.6 (MNELAB makes extensive use of f-strings). Installation methods vary across platforms, but if you don't have any specific preferences, [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/) is one of the best options available, especially on Windows.

If you use macOS, we recommend [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) to install Python (`brew install python` or `brew install python@3.8`), because Anaconda has to jump through some hoops to make Python interact with the macOS window manager (and that doesn't always work out of the box).

In addition to Python, you will also need a working [Git](https://git-scm.com/) installation. Again, installation methods are different depending on which platform you are using, but if you use Anaconda you can type `conda install git` in a terminal and you should be all set. If you are on Windows, you can install [Git for Windows](https://gitforwindows.org/). If you use Homebrew on macOS, you should already have a working Git installation.

### Forking and cloning MNELAB
On the [GitHub website](https://github.com/cbrnr/mnelab), click on the "Fork" button in the top right corner to create your own fork of MNELAB (you need to be logged in with your GitHub account). Next, from the main page of your fork, click on the green "Clone or download" button. Copy the URL to the clipboard &ndash; you will need this URL to create your local MNELAB repository.

Open a terminal and change into the folder where you would like your MNELAB project to live. Then, type `git clone <URL>` (replace `<URL>` with the repository URL you copied to the clipboard earlier). Your fork of MNELAB is now available in the `mnelab` folder.

### Installing required Python packages
In a terminal, change to the `mnelab` folder containing your MNELAB fork. Now you are ready to install all MNELAB dependencies.

If you use Anaconda, you should first install PyQt5 with `conda install pyqt` (PySide2 is not available). Then run `conda install numpy scipy matplotlib qtpy scikit-learn` followed by `python3 -m pip install Pebble mne python-picard pyEDFlib pyxdf pybv` and `python3 -m pip install pyobjc-framework-Cocoa` if you are on macOS. You might want to [create a new environment](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#creating-an-environment-with-commands) instead of installing everything into your base environment.

If you do not use Anaconda, first install either PyQt5 or PySide2 with `python3 -m pip install PyQt5` or `python3 -m pip install PySide2`. Then run `python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt` followed by `python3 -m pip install -r requirements-optional.txt`. You might want to [create a virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html#creating-virtual-environments) instead of installing everything into your main environment.

### Creating a new branch
Before you start working with the MNELAB codebase you need to create a new branch. In a terminal, type `git checkout -b <BRANCH_NAME>` (replacing `<BRANCH_NAME>` with a suitable name for your branch). Now you are ready to work on your contribution.

### Making a pull request
Once you have committed all of your changes, you can push them to your remote fork by typing `git push`. The GitHub page of your fork will now show a prompt to create a new pull request. Think of a good title and describe your contribution. If you have a corresponding issue, make sure to mention this issue in your description (so it will be automatically closed after your pull request is merged).

### Adding a changelog entry
Once you have an open pull request, add an entry to the top of `CHANGELOG.md` in the most suitable section: "Added" lists new features, "Fixed" lists bug fixes, and "Changed" lists all other (mostly internal) changes. Finally, make sure to mention your pull request and your name.

### Coding style
MNELAB adheres to [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) wherever possible. However, because PyQt5 and PySide2 are based on the C++-based Qt library, most of their names use camel case (violating PEP8 recommendations) instead of snake case. In your own code, please follow PEP8 naming conventions whenever possible.

MNELAB uses double quotes for strings by default unless this is not possible (e.g. use `"string"` instead of `'string'`, but `'this is "weird"'` uses single quotes because the string itself contains double quotes).

Whenever possible, use f-strings to format strings instead of `str.format` or the `%` operator.

## Making a PyPI release
Follow these steps to make a new [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/mnelab/) release (requires write permissions for GitHub and PyPI project sites):

- Run `pip install -U setuptools wheel twine` to install/update the necessary packages
- Remove the `.dev0` suffix from the `__version__` string in `mnelab/mainwindow.py`
- Update the section in `CHANGELOG.md` corresponding to the new release with the current date
- Commit these changes and push
- Create a new release on GitHub and use the version as the tag name (make sure to prepend the version with a `v`)
- Generate the source distribution package with `python3 setup.py sdist` (remove the folders `build`, `dist`, and `mnelab.egg-info` before if these already exist)
- Upload to PyPI with `twine upload dist/*`

This concludes the new release. Now prepare the source for the next planned release as follows:

- Update the `__version__` string in `mainwindow.py` to the next planned release and append `.dev0` (don't forget to push this change)
