README.md, before:

![Python](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/mnelab.svg?logo=python)
[![PyPI Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/mnelab)](https://pypi.org/project/mnelab/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/cbrnr/mnelab)](LICENSE)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbrnr/mnelab/main/mnelab/images/mnelab_logo.png)

MNELAB is a graphical user interface (GUI) for [MNE](https://github.com/mne-tools/mne-python), a Python package for EEG/MEG analysis.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbrnr/mnelab/main/mnelab.png)

### Changelog
Check out the [changelog](https://github.com/cbrnr/mnelab/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) to learn what we added, changed, or fixed in the latest release.

### Dependencies
MNELAB requires Python >= 3.8 and the following packages:
- [mne](https://github.com/mne-tools/mne-python) >= 0.22.0
- [QtPy](https://github.com/spyder-ide/qtpy) >= 1.9.0
- [PyQt5](https://www.riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/download5) >= 5.10.0 or [PySide2](https://www.qt.io/qt-for-python) >= 5.10.0
- [numpy](http://www.numpy.org/) >= 1.14.0
- [scipy](https://www.scipy.org/scipylib/index.html) >= 1.0.0
- [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/) >= 2.1.0
- [pyxdf](https://github.com/xdf-modules/xdf-Python) >= 1.16.0
- [pyobjc-framework-Cocoa](https://pyobjc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) >= 5.2.0 (macOS only)

Optional dependencies provide additional features if installed:
- [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/) >= 0.20.0 (ICA computation with FastICA)
- [python-picard](https://pierreablin.github.io/picard/) >= 0.4.0 (ICA computation with PICARD)
- [pyEDFlib](https://github.com/holgern/pyedflib) >= 0.1.15 (EDF/BDF export)
- [pybv](https://github.com/bids-standard/pybv) 0.4.0 (BrainVision VHDR/VMRK/EEG export)

### Installation
Make sure you have either `PySide2` or `PyQt5` installed. If you have neither, we recommend `PySide2`, which you can install with `pip install PySide2`. Then install MNELAB with:

```
pip install mnelab
```

To use all MNELAB features, all optional dependencies should also be installed:

```
pip install scikit-learn python-picard pyEDFlib pybv
```

You can start MNELAB in a terminal with `mnelab` or `python -m mnelab`. On Windows, make sure to use Command Prompt (`cmd.exe`) or PowerShell (`powershell.exe`) &ndash; the `mnelab` command does not work in Git Bash.

If you use [Arch Linux](https://www.archlinux.org/), you can alternatively install the [python-mnelab](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/python-mnelab/) AUR package (note that this also requires the [python-mne](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/python-mne/) AUR package).

Instead of the latest release, you can also install the latest development version as follows:

```
pip install git+https://github.com/cbrnr/mnelab
```

### Contributing
The [contributing guide](https://github.com/cbrnr/mnelab/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) contains detailed instructions on how to contribute to MNELAB.

Commit message:

Replace QtPy with PySide6 (#237)
* Replace QtPy with PySide6

* Update CI (debug)

* Install libopengl0

* Install freeglut3

* Also install libopengl0

* libegl1 maybe

* Use Qt.ApplicationAttribute

* Revert package installs

* Install libegl1

* Remove name

* Test

* Use name

* Remove ls again

* Replace qtpy with PySide6

* Rename tests to test

* Update README.md

* Add changelog entry

* Use Python 3.8 (preinstalled) to build sdist

README.md, after:

![Python](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/mnelab.svg?logo=python)
[![PyPI Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/mnelab)](https://pypi.org/project/mnelab/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/cbrnr/mnelab)](LICENSE)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbrnr/mnelab/main/mnelab/images/mnelab_logo.png)

MNELAB is a graphical user interface (GUI) for [MNE](https://github.com/mne-tools/mne-python), a Python package for EEG/MEG analysis.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbrnr/mnelab/main/mnelab.png)

### Changelog
Check out the [changelog](https://github.com/cbrnr/mnelab/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) to learn what we added, changed, or fixed in the latest release.

### Dependencies
MNELAB requires Python >= 3.8 and the following packages:
- [mne](https://github.com/mne-tools/mne-python) >= 0.24.0
- [PySide6](https://www.qt.io/qt-for-python) >= 6.2.0
- [numpy](http://www.numpy.org/) >= 1.14.0
- [scipy](https://www.scipy.org/scipylib/index.html) >= 1.0.0
- [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/) >= 3.5.0
- [pyxdf](https://github.com/xdf-modules/xdf-Python) >= 1.16.0
- [pyobjc-framework-Cocoa](https://pyobjc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) >= 5.2.0 (macOS only)

Optional dependencies provide additional features if installed:
- [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/) >= 0.20.0 (ICA computation with FastICA)
- [python-picard](https://pierreablin.github.io/picard/) >= 0.4.0 (ICA computation with PICARD)
- [pyEDFlib](https://github.com/holgern/pyedflib) >= 0.1.15 (EDF/BDF export)
- [pybv](https://github.com/bids-standard/pybv) 0.4.0 (BrainVision VHDR/VMRK/EEG export)

### Installation
You can install MNELAB with:

```
pip install mnelab
```

If you want to use all MNELAB features, the full package including optional dependencies can be installed with:

```
pip install mnelab[full]
```

You can start MNELAB in a terminal with `mnelab` or `python -m mnelab`. On Windows, make sure to use Command Prompt (`cmd.exe`) or PowerShell (`powershell.exe`) &ndash; the `mnelab` command [currently does not work in Git Bash](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/10444).

If you use [Arch Linux](https://www.archlinux.org/), you can alternatively install the [python-mnelab](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/python-mnelab/) AUR package (note that this also requires the [python-mne](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/python-mne/) AUR package).

You can also install the latest development version as follows:

```
pip install git+https://github.com/cbrnr/mnelab
```

### Contributing
The [contributing guide](https://github.com/cbrnr/mnelab/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) contains detailed instructions on how to contribute to MNELAB.
